the Israeli military has announced it
has pulled all but one Brigade of its
soldiers from Southern Gaza they did not
provide any further details about the
withdrawal but Israeli media Reports say
ground operations are now likely to
focus on intelligence-based targeted
raids only local media is also reporting
that the remaining troops will still
guard the corridor separating North and
South Gaza that was constructed by the
Israel Defense
Forces for more I'm now joined by Marina
Moran a military analyst and associate
professor at King's College London um
Marina what does this withdrawal mean on
the
ground hello Melissa well given the
situation on the ground this withdrawal
will mean that well obviously there will
be still one Brigade in the South which
in Israeli trms would be one one to
2,000 troops on the ground however the
nature of the military operation in Gaza
will change and I expect a much slower
Pace in terms of the air strikes that we
have seen before that claimed many
civilian lives so it will be much more
focused and um obviously this will also
have an effect on the plans to enter
Rafa which I think are now at least for
the time being are off the
table is this off the table for the time
being over the next few weeks is it
possible for the milit milary to regroup
and eventually uh take that ground
offensive on Rafa that's a big question
I think a lot of people are
wondering what we have to understand
here is that it doesn't depend on the
military the military is an instrument
of politics and the political situation
and I think it was essentially a
political decision to withdraw the
troops from South and Gaza because of
the mounting International pressure
after the killings of Aid workers on the
one hand on the other hand is Israel
needs international support the US and
the UK support and both countries have
voiced concerns over and over again we
have un Security Council resolutions we
also have today um ceasefire talks in
Egypt so depending on what the outcome
of those talks will be that will
determine the future course of the
operation and we also have to understand
that Israel also is expecting a
retaliatory strike by Iran whether it
will be direct by Iran or by Hezbollah
we do not know but Israel itself needs
troops and it's been mobilizing
reservists which has been harming
Israeli economy and then you have the
population and the pressure on the
Netanyahu government and the protests
inside Israel so the situation for
Israel is quite complicated therefore I
think that reducing the pace of the
situation until some of these factors
can get normalized to a certain extent
is a wise choice to wait out therefore I
cannot say whether it will be in a week
or two or maybe in a couple of months it
all depends on these um conjunction of
factors I just named now Israel says the
goal to eliminate hamas's Han unit
Brigade there have been reached and
that's one of the reasons why they can't
leave uh how how possible is to verify
that well we don't have more
intelligence than what the Israeli
military says unfortunately and yes we
have those gains however in the grander
scheme it is not enough to reach the
military objectives that um Israel has
set therefore I think of course they
they say that they have reached one of
the objectives to explain their
activities because it would be too
difficult to name all the political
implications that these military
activities have caused therefore I think
that um maybe Israel will also need to
recalibrate its military aims and create
a viable political aim for Gaza because
the military cannot and in itself solve
the problem Marina Moran a military
analyst and associate professor at
King's College London thank you so
much thank you for having
me and in the studio I'm now joined by
DW Middle East analyst shanni rosanes uh
shannie why do you think this is
happening now is it because of us uh uh
pressure um it was very clear that the
Americans did not want to see a ground
invasion of Rafa that's true but if you
ask Israelis officially then though this
has nothing to do with International
Community pressure which we've been
seeing mounting in last week following
the killing of Aid workers in the strip
um it could be that they were just using
the fact that it's a six month
anniversary and trying to make it not
connect otherwise not connected to any
certain events but sort of make it
symbolic but the military has been
winding down down operations in the last
couple of weeks and they've been saying
that they don't have any need to leave
the soldiers exposed you know once they
are in Gaza and they're not maneuvering
they're not in action um then they're
exposed to maybe uh targeted um attacks
by Hamas militants they don't want to do
that um so for now I mean and IDF the
way they try to sell it it's always been
part of the plan um it does not mean
anything about Rafa because um any
action taken in Rafa will have to be
taken only after the population has been
evicted this is something the Americans
are demanding Israel has agreed to that
and that will take weeks and weeks uh
what does this withdrawal mean for this
ceasefire deal that never seems to
happen but always so close right yeah
that's interesting question because
Israel has always you know officially
tried to to to say that the only way to
get Hamas to get any concessions and
agree to anything on the on the
negotiations about the hostage deal is
through applying military pressure and a
lot of it and this is what they've been
doing in the last six months we've seen
over 32,000 Palestinian casualties due
to that pressure um and so Israel kind
of withdrawing its forces it also means
a slow uh withdrawal of that position of
of only pressure will be the one
bringing any any um breakthrough in the
negotiations it could be connected to
the fact that now we know we know that
the talks are being resumed there's
going to be a new delegations going you
know in and out of Cairo in the next
days maybe we're in a point now uh where
most points have already been agreed on
and now what's on the table has nothing
to do with that it's hard to say we
really don't know what's happening
between closed doors uh in those
negotiations and talks I mean it has
been six months um how has the view of I
mean I know it's a very divided country
lots of different opinions but uh how
has the country changed in terms of its
perspective on the conflict well I think
there's a slow understanding that
something isn't working you know Nano
kept saying in a very confident voice
again and again Israel will keep on F
fighting until the complete obliteration
of Hamas they're far from doing that
we've seen uh racket you know Rockets
against Israel this day from from Gaza
you know as if 6 months has not happened
so it's clear something isn't working
it's clear there need to be a change but
it's also clear there's going to be a
political backlash from the right uh
side of netan who want to see more
action and not less military action in
Gaza and we will see how it unfolds in
the next days tww Middle East analyst
shaie rosanas thank you so much you're
welcome
l